This is how intelligence is made.
A new kind of factory.
Generator of tokens
The building blocks of AI
Tokens have opened a new frontier
The first step into an extraordinary world.
Where endless possibilities are born.
Tokens transform images into scientific data.
Charting alien atmospheres.
And guiding the explorers of tomorrow.
They probe the Earth's depths.
To seek out hidden danger.
They turn potential
Into plenty
And help us harvest our bounty.
Tokens see disease before it takes hold.
Cure with precision
And learn
What makes us tick?
Token connect the dots
So we can protect our most noble creatures.
Tokens decode the laws of physics.
To move us faster.
And make our days more efficient.
Tokens don't just teach robots how to move,
but to bring joy.
And comfort
Mar. Hi.
Are you ready to see the Dr.? What's that?
It's my enchanting tool.
Tokens help us move forward.
One small step for man.
Becomes one giant leap for mankind.
So we can boldly go
Where no one has gone before.
And here
Is where it all begins.
Welcome to the Stage NVIDIA
Founder and CEO Jensen Huang.
Oh.
Bonjour.
NVIDIA's first GTC in Paris.
This is incredible.
Thank you for all the
partners who are here with us.
We have so many people that
we work with over the years.
In fact, we've been in Europe for a very
long time though. This is my first GTC
Paris. I have a lot to tell you.
NVIDIA, once upon a time,
wanted to create a new computing platform.
To do things that normal computers cannot.
We accelerated the CPU, created a new type of
computing called accelerated computing, and one
of our first applications was molecular dynamics.
We've come a long way since.
So many different libraries. And in fact,
what makes accelerated computing special?
It's not just a new processor
that you compile software to.
You have to reformulate how you do computing.
You have to reformulate your algorithm and it
turns out to be incredibly hard for
people to reformulate software and
algorithms to be highly parallelized.
And so we created libraries to help.
Each market, each domain of application.
Becomes accelerated. Each one of these
libraries opens up new opportunities for the
developers and it opens up new opportunities
for growth for us and our ecosystem partners.
Computational lithography. Probably the single
most important application in semiconductor
design today, runs in a factory at TSMC.
Samsung large semiconductor fabs. Before the
chip is made, it runs through an inverse physics
algorithm called cuLitho, computational
lithography.
Direct sparse solvers
Algebraic multi-grid solvers.
CuOpt, we just opened sourced.
incredibly exciting Application Library.
This library accelerates decision making
To optimize problems with millions of
variables for millions of constraints
like traveling salespeople problems.
Warp, a Pythonic
Framework for expressing
geometry and physics solvers…really important.
cuDF cuML, Structured databases, DataFrames,
classical machine learning algorithms
cuDf accelerates Spark with zero
lines of code change.
cuML accelerates Sidekick
learn with zero lines of code change.
Dynamo and CuDNN
cuDNN is probably the single most important
library NVIDIA has ever created. It accelerates
the primitives of deep neural networks. And
Dynamo is our brand new library that makes
it possible to dispatch, orchestrate,
distribute extremely complex inference
workloads across an entire AI factory.
cuEquivariance and cuTensor tensor
contraction algorithms.
Equivariance is for neural
networks that obey the laws of geometry, such as
proteins, molecules, Aerial, and Sionna. Really
important framework to enable AI to run 6G.
Earth-2, our simulation environment for
foundation models of weather and climate models.
Kilometer-squared, incredibly high resolution.
MONAI, our framework for medical imaging,
incredibly popular. Parabricks is a solver
for genomics analysis incredibly successful.
cuQuantum, CUDA-Q I'll talk about in just
a second for quantum computing and
cuPyNumeric acceleration for NumPy and
SciPy. As you can see, these are just a few of
the examples of libraries. There are 400 others.
Each one of them accelerates
a domain of application.
Each one of them opens up new opportunities.
Well, one of the most exciting.
Most exciting is CUDA-Q.
CUDA-X is this suite of libraries.
Library suite for accelerating applications and
algorithms on top of CUDA. We now have CUDA-Q.
CUDA-Q is for quantum computing. For
quantum classical computing based on GPUs.
We've been working on CUDA now for several years.
And today I can tell you there's an inflection
point happening in quantum computing.
As you know.
The first physical qubit was
demonstrated some nearly 30 years ago.
An error correction algorithm
was invented in 1995.
And in 2023, almost 30 years later.
The world's first logical
qubit was demonstrated by Google.
Since then, a couple of years later, the number
of logical qubits which is represented by a whole
lot of physical qubits with error correction,
the number of logical qubits are starting to grow.
Well, just like Moore's Law would. I could totally
expect ten times more logical qubits every
five years, 100 times more logical qubits
every ten years. Those logical qubits would
become better error corrected, more robust,
higher performance, more resilient, and
of course will continue to be scalable.
Quantum computing is reaching an inflection
point. We've been working with quantum
computing companies all over the
world in several different ways,
but here in Europe there's a large community.
I saw Pascal last night. I saw Barcelona
supercomputing last night. It is clear now.
We are within reach of being able to apply
quantum computing, quantum classical
computing, in areas that can solve some
interesting problems in the coming years.
This is a really exciting time. and
so we've been working with all of the
supercomputing centers. It's very clear now.
That over the next several years, or at
least the next generation of supercomputers,
every single one of them will have a QPU
assigned and QPU connected to GPUs. The QPU
will do quantum computing, of course.
And the GPUs would be used for
pre processing for control.
Error correction, which would
be intensely computationally intensive,
post processing and such. Between the two
architectures, just as we accelerated the
CPU, now there's QPU working with the GPU
to enable the next generation of computing.
Well, today we're announcing that our entire
quantum algorithm stack is now accelerated on
Grace Blackwell 200 and the speed up is utterly
incredible. We work with the Quantum computing
industry in several different ways. One way is
using cuQuantum to simulate the qubits or simulate
the algorithms that runs on top of these quantum
computers, essentially using a classical computer
to simulate or emulate a quantum computer.
At the other extreme,
extremely important is CUDA-Q.
Basically inventing a new CUDA that
extends CUDA into quantum classical so
that applications that are developed on CUDA.
Can run before the quantum computer arrives
in an emulated way or after the quantum
computer arrives in a collaborative way.
A quantum classical
accelerated computing approach.
And so today we're announcing CUDA
is available for Grace Blackwell.
The ecosystem here is incredibly rich.
Of course, Europe is deep with science
and deep with supercomputing
expertise and deep with heritage
in this area. And it's not surprising to see.
quantum computing advance here. in the next
several years, we're going to see a really
fantastic inflection point. So anyways, for
all of the quantum industry that have been working
on this for three decades now, I congratulate you
for just the incredible accomplishment
and the milestones today. Thank you.
Let's talk about AI.
You might be surprised
That I would I would be talking to
you about AI. the same, the same GPU.
That
Ran and enabled all of these
applications that I mentioned. That same GPU.
Enabled artificial intelligence to come
to the world. Our first contact
was in 2012 just prior to that.
Working with developers on a new
type algorithm called deep learning.
It enabled the AlexNet big bang of AI in 2012.
In the last 15 years or so AI has progressed
incredibly fast. The first
wave of AI was perception.
For computers to recognize information.
Understand it. The second wave,
which most of us were talking about.
The last five years or so was Generative AI.
It's multimodal, meaning that an AI was
able to learn both images and Language.
Therefore, you could prompt with
Language and it could generate images.
The ability of AI to be multimodal as
well as able to translate and generate
content enabled the Generative AI revolution.
Generative AI, the ability to generate content
is fundamentally vital. For us to be productive
Well, we've got a new, we are starting a new
wave of AI. and this last couple of years
we've seen enormous progress in AI's ability.
Fundamentally, intelligence
is about understanding.
Perception
Reasoning
Planning a task, how to solve a problem, and
then executing the task, perception, reasoning,
planning. the fundamental cycles of intelligence.
It allows us to apply some previously learned
rules to solve problems we've never seen before.
That's why intelligent people are considered
intelligent to be able to take a complicated
problem, break it down step by step.
Reason about how to solve the
problem, maybe do research.
Maybe go learn some new information.
Get some help, use tools, and solve
problems step by step. Well, the words
that I just described are fundamentally
possible today with what is called Agentic
AI, and I'll show you more in just a second.
In the physical implementation of that,
the embodiment of that Agentic AI.
Now the Generative capability is generating
motion. Instead of generating videos and
generating images or generating text, this AI
generates locomotion, the ability to walk or
reach out and grab something, use tools.
The ability for AI to be embodied in
a physical form is basically robotics.
These capabilities. the fundamental technology
To enable agents, which are basically information
robots and embodied AI, physical robots. These two
fundamental capabilities are now upon us. really,
really exciting times for AI. But it all started.
It all started with GeForce.
And GeForce brought computer
graphics. This is the first accelerated
computing application we had ever worked on.
And it's incredible how far
computer graphics has come.
GeForce brought CUDA to the world, which
enabled machine learning researchers and
AI researchers to advance deep learning.
Then deep learning revolutionized computer
graphics and made it possible for us to
bring computer graphics to a whole new level.
Everything I'm going to show you today.
Everything I'm going to you today,
I'm going to give you a preview of what I'm going
to show you. But everything I'm going to show you
today is computer simulation, not animation.
It's photon simulation, physics simulation,
particle simulations.
Everything is fundamentally
simulation, not animation, not art. It just
looks incredibly beautiful because it turns
out the world is beautiful and it turns out
math is beautiful. So let's take a look.
What do you think?
Numbers in action. Numbers in
action. That's essentially what simulations are
and it's just incredibly beautiful to look at.
But because of the scale.
And the speed by which we
can now simulate almost everything.
We can turn everything into a digital
twin. And because everything can be a digital
twin, it could be designed, planned, optimized,
and operated completely digitally before we
put it into the physical world. The idea that
we would build everything in software is now upon
us. Everything physical will be built digitally.
Everything that's built magnificently
will be built digitally. Everything
that's operated at gigantic scale will be first
built digitally, and there will be digital twins
that operate it. And so today we're going
to talk a lot about digital twins. Well,
what started out as a GeForce graphics
card…Anybody in here know what a GeForce is?
Okay.
Right. Well, what started out as GeForce?
Looks like this now this is the new GeForce. It is
two tons, two and a half tons, 1.2 million parts.
About $3 million
120 KW.
Manufactured in 150 factories.
200 technology partners
working with us to do this.
Probably something along the lines of $40
billion in R&D budget in order to create
what is GB200 and now moving to GB300. It is
completely in production. And this machine was
designed to be a thinking machine. A thinking
machine in the sense that it reasons, it plans.
It spends a lot of time talking to itself.
Just like you do.
We spend most of our time generating words for
our own mind, generating images for our own mind
before we produce it. And so the thinking machine
is really architecturally what Grace Blackwell was
designed to do. It was designed to be one giant
GPU. I compared it to GeForce for a good reason.
GeForce is one GPU, so is GB200. It is one giant
virtual GPU. Now we had to disaggregate it into
a whole bunch of components, create a bunch of
new networking technology and SerDes technology,
incredibly low, low power, high energy efficiency
interconnects to connect all of these chips and
Systems together into one virtual
GPU. This is the hopper version.
This is the world famous hopper system.
Eight GPUs connected together on NVLink.
What's not shown here is a CPU
tray, a CPU tray with dual CPU
and system memory that sits on top together.
This represents one node of an AI supercomputer
About half a million dollars. This is
the hopper system. This is the system
that really put us on the map of AI and It
was under allocation for a very long time.
Because the market took off so quickly. But this
is the famous Hopper system. Well, this entire
system, including the CPU, is replaced by this.
Great Blackwell node. This is one compute tray.
Right here we'll replace that entire
system. It is fully liquid cooled.
And the CPUs are integrated directly
connected to the GPUs. So you could
see it here, two CPUs, four GPUs it is
more performant than that entire system.
But what's amazing is this: we wanted to connect
a whole bunch of these systems together. How would
you connect all of these together was really hard
for us to imagine. So we disaggregated it. What we
did was we took that entire motherboard.
We disaggregated into this and this.
This is the revolutionary NVLink system.
Scaling out computing is not that hard.
Just connect more CPUs with Ethernet. Scaling
out is not hard. Scaling up is incredibly hard.
You can only build as large of
a computer as you can build.
The amount of technology and electronics that
you could fit into one memory Model is incredibly
hard to do. And so what we decided to do was we
create a new interconnect called NVLink. NVLink
is a memory semantics interconnect.
It's a compute fabric, not a network.
It directly connects to the CPU of
all of these different NVLink systems
compute nodes. This is the switch.
Nine of these stand on top. Nine of
it sits on the bottom. In the middle are
the NVLink switches and what connects it
together is this miracle.
This is the NVLink spine.
This is 100% copper.
Copper coax. It directly
connects all of the NVLink chips to all
of the GPUs directly connected over.
This entire spine so that every single one of
the 144 Blackwell dies in 72 different packages
are talking to each other at the same time.
Without blocking all across this NVLink spine,
the bandwidth of this is about
130 terabytes per second.
130. I know.
No, wait for it. wait for it.
130 TBps if it's in bits.
130 TBps
It is more than the data rate of the
peak traffic of the world's entire
internet traffic, on this backplane. Yeah.
So this is how you shrink the internet into
60 pounds.
NVLink
And so we did all that. We did all that
because the way you think about computers
is going to be fundamentally different in the
future and I'll spend more time on this but
it was designed to give Blackwell a giant leap
above hopper. Remember Moore's Law semiconductor
physics is only giving you about two times
more performance every three to five years.
How could we achieve 30, 40 times more
performance in just one generation? And
we need a 30, 40 times more performance because
the reasoning models are talking to themselves.
Instead of one-shot ChatGPT, it's now a reasoning
model and it generates a ton more tokens. When
you're thinking to yourself, you're breaking
the problem down step by step. You're reasoning,
you're trying a whole bunch of different
paths. Maybe it's chain of thoughts,
maybe it's tree of thoughts. Best of end, it's
reflecting on its own answers. You've probably
seen these research models reflecting on the
answer, saying, is this a good answer? Can you do
better than that? And they the, oh yeah, I can do
better than that goes back and thinks some more.
And so those thinking models, reasoning models
achieve Incredible performance, but it requires
a lot more computational capability. And the net
result? NVLink 72 with Blackwell’s architecture
resulted in a giant leap in performance.
The way to read this is the x axis is how fast
it's thinking. The y axis is how much the factory
can output supporting a whole bunch of users at
one time. And so you want the throughput of the
factory to be as high as possible so you could
support as many people as possible so that the
revenues of your factory is as high as possible.
You want this axis to be as large as possible
because the AI is smarter here than it is here.
The faster it can think, the more it can think
before it answers your question. And so this
has to do with the ASP of the average selling
price of the tokens and this has to do with the
throughput of the factories. These two combined
in that corner is the revenues of the factory.
This factory based on Blackwell can generate a
ton more revenues as a result of the architecture.
It is such an incredible thing what we built.
We made a movie for you just to give you a
sense of the enormity of the engineering
that went into building Grace Blackwell,
take a look.
[video]
Blackwell is an engineering marvel.
It begins as a blank silicon wafer.
Hundreds of chip processing
and ultraviolet lithography
steps build up each of the two hundred billion
transistors layer by layer on a twelve -wafer.
The wafer is scribed into individual
Blackwell dies, tested and sorted,
separating the good dies to move forward.
The chip on wafer on substrate process
attaches 32 Blackwell dies and 128 HBM
stacks on a custom silicon interposer wafer.
Metal interconnect traces are etched directly
into it, connecting Blackwell GPUs and HBM
stacks into each system and package
unit, locking everything into place.
Then the assembly is baked, molded,
and cured, creating the Blackwell
B200 superchip.
Each Blackwell
is stress-tested in ovens at 125 °C.
And pushed to its limits for several hours.
Robots work around the clock
to pick and place over 10,000
components onto the Grace Blackwell PCB.
Meanwhile, custom liquid cooling copper
blocks are prepared to keep the
chips at optimal temperatures.
At another facility, ConnectX-7 super NICs are
built to enable scale-out communications and
BlueField-3 DPUs to offload and accelerate
networking, storage, and security tasks.
All these parts converge to be carefully
integrated into GB200 compute trays.
NVLink is the breakthrough high speed link
that NVIDIA invented to connect multiple
GPUs and scale up into a massive virtual GPU.
The NVLink switch tray is constructed with NVLink
switch chips providing 14.4 TBps of all-to-all
bandwidth. NVLink spines form a custom blind mated
backplane with 5,000 copper cables connecting all
72 Blackwells or 144 GPU dies into one giant GPU
delivering 130 TBps of all-to-all bandwidth,
more than the global internet's peak traffic.
From around the world, parts arrive to
be assembled by skilled technicians into
a rack-scale AI supercomputer.
In total 1.2 million components,
2 miles of copper cable, 130 trillion
transistors, weighing nearly two tons.
Blackwell is more than a technological
wonder. It's a testament to the power
of global collaboration and innovation,
fueling the discoveries and solutions
that will shape our future everywhere.
We are driven to enable the geniuses of
our time to do their life’s work and we can't
wait to see the breakthroughs you deliver.
Grace Blackwell Systems
All in production. It is really a miracle.
It's a miracle from a technology perspective.
But the supply chain that came together to build
these GB200 systems, two tons each, we're
producing them now, 1,000 systems a week.
No one has ever produced mass produced
supercomputers at this scale before.
Each one of these racks is essentially
an entire supercomputer. Only in 2018,
the largest Volta system, the Sierra supercomputer
in 2018 is less performant than one of these racks
and that system was 10 MW. This is 100 KW. So the
difference generationally between 2018 and now,
we've really taken supercomputing,
AI supercomputing to a whole new
level and we're now producing these machinery at
enormous scales. And this is just the beginning.
In fact, what you've seen is just one system,
Grace Blackwell. The entire world is talking
of this one system, clamoring for it to get
deployed into the world's data centers for
training and inferencing and Generative AI.
However, not everybody and not every data
center handle these liquid cooled systems.
Some data centers require enterprise stacks,
the ability to run Linux, Red Hat, or or VMware.
Storage systems from Dell, Emc, Hitachi, Netapp,
Vast, Weka, so many different storage systems,
so many different IT systems. And the management
of those has to be done in a way that's consistent
with traditional IT systems. We have so many new
computers to ramp into production and I'm so happy
to tell you that every single one of these are
now in production. You haven't seen them yet.
They're all flying off the shelves, flying off
the ramps, the manufacturing lines starting here.
DGX Spark enables you to have essentially
the Grace Blackwell system on your desktop
in the case of Spark desktop, in the case of DGX
station desk side. This way you don't have to sit
on a supercomputer while you're developing your
software, while you're developing your AI, but
you want the architecture to be exactly the same.
These systems are identical from an architecture
perspective. From a software developer
perspective, it looks exactly the same.
The only difference is scale and speed.
And then on this side are all the X86
systems. The world's IT organizations still
prefer X86 and appreciate X86 wherever they
can take advantage of the most advanced AI
native systems. They do where they can't
and they want to integrate into the enterprise IT
systems, we now offer them the ability to do so.
One of the most important systems and it has
taken us the longest to build because of the
software and the architecture is
so complicated is how to bring.
The AI native architecture and infuse it
into the traditional enterprise IT system.
This is our brand new RTX Pro
server. This is an incredible system.
The motherboard is completely redesigned.
Ladies and gentlemen, Janine Paul.
This motherboard looks so simple.
And yet on top of this motherboard
are eight super NIC switches that connect eight
GPUs across a 200 Gbps state of the art networking
chip that then connects eight of these GPUs and
these Blackwell RTX Pro 6000 GPUs, brand new,
just entered into production.
Eight of these go into a
server. Now what makes it special?
This server is the only server in
the world that runs everything the world has ever
written and everything NVIDIA has ever developed.
It runs AI, Omniverse, RTX for video
games. It runs Windows, it runs Linux,
runs Kubernetes, it runs Kubernetes and VMware.
It runs basically everything. If you want to
stream Windows desktop from a computer to your
to your remote device, no problem. If you want
to stream Omniverse, no problem. If you want
to run your robotics stack, no problem. Just
the QA of this particular machine is insane. The
applications that it runs are basically universal.
Everything the world's ever developed should
run on here, including If you're a video gamer,
including crisis.
And so if you can
run crisis, you can run anything.
Okay, this is the RTX Pro Server
brand new enterprise system.
So something is changing.
We know that AI is incredibly
important technology.
We know for a fact now that AI is software that
could revolutionize, transform every industry.
It can do these amazing things.
That we know
We also know that the way you
process AI is fundamentally
different than the way we used to
process software written by hand.
Machine learning software is developed
differently and it runs differently.
The architecture of the systems, the architecture
of the software are completely different. The way
the networking works is completely different.
The way it acts is completely different.
So we know that the technology can do
different things, incredible things.
It's intelligent. We also know that
it's developed in a fundamentally
different way and needs new computers.
The thing that's really interesting,
is what does this all mean, to
countries, to companies, to society.
And this, this is an observation that
we made almost a decade ago that now
everyone is awakening to, that in fact these
AI data centers are not data centers at all.
They're not data centers in
the classical sense of a data
center storing your files that you retrieve.
These data centers are not storing our files.
It has one job and one job only: to produce
intelligent tokens, the generation of AI.
These factories of AI look like
data centers in the sense that
they have a lot of computers inside.
But that's where everything breaks down.
How it's designed, the scale at
which its manufactured or scaled,
designed and built and how it's used.
And how it's orchestrated and
provisioned, operated.
How you think about it?
For example, nobody really thinks about their
data center as a revenue generating facility.
I said something that everybody
goes, yeah, I think you're right.
Nobody ever thinks about a data center as a
revenue-generating facility, but they think
of their factories, their car factories, as
revenue-generating facilities. And they can't
wait to build another factory because whenever
you build a factory, revenue grows shortly
after you could build more things for more people.
Those ideas are exactly the same ideas in these AI
factories. They are revenue-generating facilities
and they are designed to manufacture tokens.
And these tokens can be reformulated into
productive intelligence for so many industries
that AI factories are now part of a country's
infrastructure which is the reason why you see
me running around the world talking to heads of
state, because they all want to have AI factories.
They all want AI to be part of their
infrastructure. They want AI to be a
growth manufacturing industry for them.
And this is genuinely profound.
And I think we're talking about,
as a result of all that, a new
industrial revolution because every single
industry is affected, and a new industry.
Just as electricity became a new industry.
At first when it was described as a
technology and demonstrated as a technology.
It was understood as a technology, but then we
understood that it's also a large industry.
Then there's the information in industry.
Which we now know as the internet. And both of
them, because it affected so many industries,
became part of infrastructure.
We now have a new industry.
An AI industry and it's now part of the
new infrastructure called intelligence
infrastructure. Every country, every society,
every company will depend on it. And you could
see its scale. This is one that's being talked
about a lot. This is Stargate. This doesn't look
like a data center. It looks like a factory. This
is 1 GW. It will hold about 500,000 GPU dies.
And produce an enormous amount of
intelligence that could be used by everybody.
Well, Europe has now awakened to the
importance of these AI factories,
the importance of the AI infrastructure, and
I'm so delighted to see so much activity here.
This is European telcos building
AI infrastructure with NVIDIA.
This is the European cloud service providers
building AI infrastructure with NVIDIA.
And this is the European Supercomputing
centers, building next generation AI
supercomputers and infrastructure with NVIDIA.
And this is just the beginning. This is.
In addition to what will come in the
public clouds. This is in addition to
the public clouds. So indigenous-built AI
infrastructure here in Europe by European
companies for the European market.
And then there's 20 more being planned.
20 more AI factories and several
that are gigawatt factories.
In total in just two years we will
increase the amount of AI computing
capacity in Europe by a factor of ten.
And so the researchers, the startups:
your AI shortage, your GPU shortage will be
resolved for you soon. It's coming for you.
Now we're partnering with each country to
develop their ecosystem. And so we're building AI
technology centers in seven different countries.
And the goal of these AI technology centers
is one, to do collaborative research
To work with the startups and also to build
the ecosystem. Let me show you what an ecosystem
looks like in the Uk. I was just there yesterday.
The ecosystems are built on top of
the NVIDIA stack. So for example.
Every single NVIDIA. As you know,
NVIDIA is the only AI architecture
that's available in every cloud.
It's the only computing architecture
aside from X86 that's available everywhere.
We partner with every cloud service provider.
We accelerate applications from the most important
software developers and in the world, Siemens
here in Europe, Cadence, Red Hat, Servicenow.
We've reinvented the computing stack. As you know,
computing is not just a computer, but
it's compute, networking, and storage.
Each one of those layers, each one of those stacks
has been reinvented. Great partnership with Cisco,
who announced a brand new model yesterday
at their conference based on NVIDIA. Dell.
Great partnerships. Netapp. Nuts. A
whole bunch of great partnerships.
As I mentioned earlier, the way you develop
software has been fundamentally changed.
It's no longer just write C programs,
compile C programs, deliver C programs.
It's now Devops, MLOps, AI Ops. So that
entire ecosystem is being reinvented and
we have ecosystem partners everywhere
and then of course solution integrators
and providers who could then help every
company integrate these capabilities.
Well, here in the UK we have special companies
that we work with, really terrific companies
from researchers to developers, to partners to
help us upskill the local economy and upskill
the local talent, enterprises that consume the
technology, and of course cloud service providers.
We have great partners in the UK,
We have great partners in Germany.
Incredible, incredible partnerships in Germany. We
have partnerships in Italy, and we of course have
amazing partnerships here in France.
That's right, go France.
President Macron is going to be here later on.
We're going to talk about some new announcements.
So we have to show some enthusiasm for AI.
Okay. Yeah. There you go. Show
him some enthusiasm.
So great partnerships.
Here in France, one particular one I want to
highlight is our partnership with Schneider.
Building, even building these AI factories,
we build them digitally now. We design them
digitally, we build them digitally, we operate
them or optimize them digitally, and we will
even eventually optimize them and operate
them completely digitally in a digital twin.
AI factories are so expensive.
$50 billion sometimes.
$100 billion in the future.
If the utilization of that factory is
not at its fullest, the cost to the factory
owner is going to be incredible. And so we
need to digitalize and use AI wherever we can.
Put everything into Omniverse so that we have
direct and constant telemetry. We have a great
partnership here that we're announcing today.
Young company , a CEO. I really like, and
he's trying to build a European AI company.
The name of the company is Mistral. Today
we're announcing that we're going to build
an in AI cloud together here to deliver their
models as well as deliver AI applications for
the ecosystem of other AI startups so
that they can use the Mistral models,
or any model that they like. And so with Mistral
we are going to be partnering to build a very
sizable AI cloud here. And we'll, we'll talk about
more of it later on today with President Macron.
AI technology is moving at light speed.
And what I'm showing you here, proprietary
models on the left moving at light speed.
However, the open models are also moving
at light speed, only a few months behind.
Whether it's Mistral, Llama, DeepSeek R1,
R2 coming, Qwen. These models are all exceptional.
Every single one of them is exceptional. And
so we've dedicated ourselves over the
last several years to apply some of the
world's best AI researchers to make those AI
models even better and we call that Nemotron.
Basically, what we do is we take the models
that are open-sourced, and of course they're
all built on NVIDIA anyhow, and we take those
open-sourced models, we then post-train it.
We might do neural architecture search.
We might do neural architecture search,
provided with even better data.
Use reinforcement learning techniques, enhance
those models, give it reasoning capabilities.
Extend the context so that it could learn and
read more before it interacts with you.
Most of these models have relatively
short context, and we wanted to have enormous
context capability because we want to use it in
enterprise applications where the conversation
we want to have with it is not available on the
internet. It's available in our company, and so
we have to load it up with an enormous amount
of context. All of that capability is then
packaged together into a downloadable NIM.
You could come to NVIDIA's website and literally
download an API, a state of the art AI model.
Put it anywhere you like and
we improve it tremendously.
This is an example of Nemotron improvement over
Llama. So Llama 8B, 70B, 405B improved by our
post-training capability, extension of reasoning
capability, all the data that we provide. We
enhanced it tremendously. We're going to do this
generation after generation after generation. And
so for all of you who use Nemotron, you will
know that there's a whole slew of other models
in the future, and they're open anyway, so if
you would like to start from the open model,
that's terrific. If you'd like to start with
the Nemotron model, that's terrific. And the
Nemotron models, the performance is excellent.
In benchmarks after benchmarks after benchmarks,
Nemotron performance has top of the leaderboard
all over the place. And so now you know that you
have access to an enhanced open model that is
still open, that is top of the leader charts.
And you know that NVIDIA is dedicated
to this. And so I will do this for
as long as I shall live. Okay.
This strategy is so good. This
strategy is so good that the regional model
makers, the model builders across Europe,
have now recognized how wonderful the strategy is
and we're partnering together to adapt, enhance
each one of those models for regional languages.
Your data belongs to you. Your data belongs
to you. It is the history of your
people, the knowledge of your people,
the culture of your people. It belongs to you.
And for many companies, in the case of NVIDIA,
our data is largely inside. 33 years of data.
I was looking up this morning Siemens 180 years of
data. Some of it written down on papyrus. Roland
Bush is here. I thought I'd pick on Roland Bush,
my good friend. And so you'll have to
digitize that before the AI can learn.
And so the data belongs to you. You should use
that data. Use an open model like Nemotron and
all the tool suites that we provide so
that you can enhance it for your own use.
We're also announcing that we have a great
partnership with Perplexity. Perplexity as a
reasoning search engine.
Yep.
The three models I use, I use ChatGPT, Gemini Pro,
and Perplexity, and these three models are used
interchangeably. And Perplexity is fantastic.
We're announcing today that Perplexity will
take these regional models and connect it
right into Perplexity so that you could now
ask and get questions in the language, in the
culture and the sensibility of your country.
Okay, so Perplexity regional models.
Agentic AI. Agentic AI. Agents is a very big deal.
You know, in the beginning with pre-trained
models, people said, but it hallucinates. It
makes things up. You're absolutely right.
It doesn't have access to the latest news
and data information.
Absolutely right.
It gives up without reasoning through problems.
It's as if every single answer has to be memorized
from the past. You're absolutely right.
All of those things, you know, why is it
trying to figure out how to add or count the
count numbers and add numbers? Why doesn't
it use a calculator? You're absolutely right.
And so all of those capabilities associated with
intelligence, everybody was able to criticize,
but it was absolutely right because everybody
largely understands how intelligence works.
But those technologies were being built all around
the world and they were all coming together, from
retrieval augmented generation, to web search,
to multimodal understanding so that you can read
PDFs, go to a website, look at the images and the
words, listen to the videos, watch the videos.
And then take all of that understanding into
your context. You could also now understand,
of course, a prompt from almost anything.
You could even say, I'm going to ask you
a question, but start from this image. I
could say start from this text.
Before you answer the question
or do what I ask you to do.
It then goes off and reasons
and plans and evaluates itself.
All of those capabilities are now
integrated and you can see it coming out into
the marketplace all over the place. Agentic AI
is real. Agentic AI is a giant step function
from one-shot AI. One-shot AI was necessary to
lay the foundation so that we can teach the
agents how to be agents. You need some basic
understanding of knowledge and basic understanding
of reasoning to even be able to be teachable. And
so pre-training is about the teachability of AI.
Post-training reinforcement learning, supervised
learning, human demonstration,
context provision, generative AI.
All of that is coming together to
formulate what is now Agentic AI.
Let's take a look at one example. Let me show
you something. It's built on Perplexity and
it's super cool.
[video]
AI agents are digital assistants. Based on
a prompt, they reason through and break down
problems into multi-step plans. They use
the proper tools, work with other agents,
and use context from memory to properly execute
the job on NVIDIA accelerated systems. It starts
with a simple prompt. Let's ask Perplexity
to help start a food truck in Paris. First,
the perplexity agent reasons through the
prompt and forms a plan. Then calls other
agents to help tackle each step using
many tools. The market researcher reads
reviews and reports to uncover trends
and analyze the competitive market.
Based on this research, a concept designer
explores local ingredients and proposes a menu
complete with prep time estimates. It researches
palettes and generates a brand identity. Then the
financial planner uses Monte Carlo simulations to
forecast profitability and growth trajectory. An
operations planner builds a launch timeline with
every detail, from buying equipment to acquiring
the right permits. The marketing specialist
builds a launch plan with a social media
campaign,and even codes an interactive website
including a map, menu, and online ordering. Each
agent's work comes together in a final package
proposal, and it all started from a single prompt.
One prompt, one prompt like that in the original
chatbot would have generated a few hundred tokens,
but now with that one single prompt
into an agent to solve a problem,
it must have generated 10,000 times more tokens.
This is the reason why Grace Blackwell is
necessary. This is the reason why we need
performance and the systems to be so much
more performant generationally. Well, this is how
Perplexity builds their agents. Every company will
have to build their own agents. It's is terrific,
you're going to be hiring agents from OpenAI and
Gemini and Microsoft CoPilot and
Perplexity and Mistral and they'll
be agents that are built for you.
And they might help you plan a vacation or
you know, go do some research, so on, so forth.
However, if you want to build a company, you're
going to need specialized agents with specialized
tools and using specialized tools and specialized
skills. And so the question is, how do you build
those agents? And so we created a platform for
you. We created a framework, and a set of tools
that you can use and a whole bunch of partners
to help you do it. It starts with on the very
bottom, on the very bottom, the ability to have
reasoning models that I spoke about.
NVIDIA’s Nemotron reasoning Large
Language models are world-class.
We have NeMo Retriever, which is
a multimodal search engine, semantic search
engine, incredible. And we built a blueprint,
a demonstration that is operational, that is
essentially a general agent. We call it AI-Q.
And on top we have a suite of tools
that allows you to onboard an agent,
a general agent, curate data to teach it,
evaluate it, guardrail it, supervised train it,
use reinforcement learning all the way to
deployment, keep it secure, keep it safe.
That suite of toolkits is integrated, those
libraries are integrated, into the AI ops
ecosystem. You can come and download it from
our website yourself as well, but it's largely
integrated into AI ops ecosystem. From that,
you could create your own special agents.
Many companies are doing this. This is Cisco.
They announced it yesterday. We're building AI
platforms together for security.
Now look at this.
AI agents, and not one model that does all of
these amazing things, are a collection or a
system of models. It's a system of large
language models. Some of them are optimized
for certain types of things. Retrieval, as I
mentioned, performing skills, using a computer.
You don't want to bundle all of that stuff up
into one giant mass of AI, but you break it up
into small things that you could then deploy CICD
over time. This is an example of Cisco's. Now the
question is how do you now deploy this?
Because as I mentioned earlier,
there are public clouds where NVIDIA’s
compute is, there are regional clouds,
we call them NCPs here, for example Mistral.
You might have something that is a private cloud,
because of your security requirements
and your data privacy requirements.
You might even decide that you
have something on your desk.
And so the question is, how do you run all of
these, and sometimes they’re running in different
places because these are all microservices.
These are AIs that could talk to each other,
they could obviously talk to each other over
networking. And so how do you deploy all of
these microservices? Well, we now have a great
system. I'm so happy to announce this for you.
This is called our DGX Lepton. DGX
Lepton. What you're looking at here
is a whole bunch of different clouds. Here's
the Lambda cloud, the AWS cloud, you know,
here's your own developer’s machine. Your
own system could be a DGX station. Nebius,
Yoda, and Scale. It could be AWS, it could
be GCP. NVIDIA’s architecture is everywhere.
And so you could decide where you would like
to run your models. You deploy it using one
super cloud. So it's a cloud of clouds. Once
you get it to work, once you get these NIMs
deployed into Lepton, it will go and be hosted
and run on the various clouds that you decide.
One model architecture, one deployment and you
can run it everywhere. You can even run it on
this little tiny machine here.
You know, this DGX Spark.
Is it cafe time?
Look at this
This lift is 2000 horsepower.
This is my favorite little machine.
DGX Spark, the first…the AI supercomputer.
We built an AI supercomputer in 2016. It's
called the DGX-1. It was the first version.
everything that I've been talking about.
Eight Volta GPUs connected with NVLink.
It took us billions of dollars to build.
And on the day we announced it, DGX-1, there
were customers, no interest, no applause.
100% confusion
Why would somebody build a computer like that?
Does it run windows? Nope.
And so we built it anyway. Well,
thankfully, a young company, a startup, a
nonprofit startup in San Francisco was so
delighted to see the computer. They said, can we
have one? And I thought, oh my gosh, we sold one,
but then I discovered it was a non-profit.
But I put a computer, put a DGX-1 in my car,
and I drove it up to San Francisco.
And the name of that company is OpenAI.
I don't know what the life lesson is there.
There are a lot of non profits. You know,
so next time, next time maybe the lesson is this:
if a developer reaches out to you a needs a GPU,
the answer is yes. And so that's right.
So imagine, you have Lepton. It's in your
browser and you have this this helm chart. An AI
agent that you've developed and you want to run
it here and parts of it you want to run in AWS and
parts of it you want to run you know in a regional
cloud somewhere. You use Lepton, you deploy
your helm chart, and it magically shows up here.
Okay, and so if you would like to run it
here until you're done with it and ready
to deploy it and then deploy it into the
cloud, terrific. But the beautiful thing is
this architecture is based on Grace Blackwell
GB10 versus GB200, vs GB300, and all of these
different versions of this architecture is
exactly Grace Blackwell. Now this is amazing.
So we're doing this for Lepton,
but, next, HuggingFace and NVIDIA
have connected Lepton together.
And so whenever you're training
a model on HuggingFace, if you would like to
deploy it into Lepton and directly into Spark,
no problem. It's just one click. So
whether you're training or inferencing,
we are now connected to HuggingFace and Lepton
will help you decide where you want to deploy
it. Let's take a look at it.
[video]
Developers need easy and reliable access
to compute that keeps up with their work.
Wherever they are, whatever they're
building. DGX Cloud Lepton provides on
demand access to a global network of GPUs
across clouds, regions, and partners like
Yoda and Nebius. Multi cloud GPU clusters are
managed through a single unified interface.
Provisioning is fast. Developers can
scale up the number of nodes quickly
without complex setups and start training
right away with pre-integrated tools and
training-ready infrastructure. Progress is
monitored in real time. GPU performance,
convergence and throughput are at your fingertips.
You can test your fine-tuned models right within
the console. DGX cloud Lepton can deploy NIM
endpoints or your models in multiple clouds
or regions for fast distributed inference. Just
like ride-sharing apps connect riders to drivers,
DGX Cloud Lepton connects developers to GPU
compute, powering a virtual global AI factory.
DGX cloud Lepton.
Okay, so that's Cisco. This is the way SAP,
they're building an AI platform onNVIDIA. Sana
is building an AI business application automation
on NVIDIA. DeepL is building their language
framework and platform on NVIDIA. AI Photo Room,
a video editing and AI editing platform is
building their platform on NVIDIA. And this
is Qodo, I think used to be Qodium, incredible
coding agent built on NVIDIA. And this is Aiola,
a voice platform built on NVIDIA. And this one
is a clinical trial platform, the world's largest
automation platform for clinical trials,
built on NVIDIA. And so all of these,
all of these basically build on the same idea.
NIMs that encapsulate and package up in a virtual
container that you could deploy anywhere,
the Nemotron large language model or other
large language models like Mistral or others.
We then integrate libraries that basically covers
the entire lifecycle of an AI agent. The way you
treat an AI agent is a little bit like a digital
employee. So your IT department would have to
onboard them, fine-tune them, train them, evaluate
them, keep them guardrailed, keep them secure
and continuously improve them. And that entire
framework platform is called NeMo. And all of
that is now being integrated into one application
framework after another all over the world.
This is just an example of a few of them. And then
now we make it possible for you to deploy them
anywhere. If you want to deploy it in the cloud,
you got DGX, you got GB200s in the cloud. If you
want to deploy it on-prem, because you've got
VMware or Red Hat Linux or Neutonix and you want
to deploy it in your virtual machines on-prem,
you can do that. If you wanted
to deploy it as a private cloud,
you could do that. You can deploy it all the way
on your DGX Spark or DGX Station. No problem.
And so Lepton will help you do all of that.
Let's talk about industrial AI.
This is one of my favorite moments. This is Roland
Bush. He just, this is a really fun moment. He
wanted to remind me that neural computers, neural
network computers, were invented in Europe.
That's this whole slide.
I just, it was such a great moment. This is
Synapse1. This is incredible, you guys. Synapse1.
This is Synapse1, 1992. It runs neural networks
8000 times faster than CPUs at that time.
Isn't it incredible? So this
is the world's AI computer.
And Roland just wants to just. Never forget that,
Jensen. Never, ever forget that. I said, okay,
all right, I'll tell and I'll even tell everybody.
Siemens, 1992.
Siemens, 1992. We have a great partnership with
Siemens and Roland Bush, the CEO, is supercharging
the company so that they could leap, completely
leap the last, IT industrial revolution and
fuse the industrial capabilities of Europe, the
industrial capabilities and might of Siemens with
artificial intelligence and create what is called
the industrial AI revolution. We're partnering
with Siemens on so many different fronts.
Everything from design to simulation
to digital twins of factories,
to operations of the AI in the factories.
Everything from end to end. And it just
reminds us, it reminds me how incredible
the industrial capabilities of Europe are.
And what an extraordinary opportunity this is
for you. What an extraordinary opportunity.
Because AI is unlike software. AI is really smart
software. And this smart software can finally
do something that can revolutionize
the very industries that you serve.
And so we made a love letter
video if you will. Let's play it.
[video]
It began here.
The first industrial revolution.
Watts’ steam engine and the mechanized loom.
Introduced automation
And the advent of factories.
And industry was born
The age of electricity.
Ampere unraveled electromagnetism.
Faraday built the first electric generator.
And Maxwell laid the foundations
For modern electrical engineering.
Siemens and Wheatstone’s Dynamo.
The engine of electricity.
Bringing machine, trains,
factories and cities to life.
Electrifying the planet.
Igniting modern manufacturing
And today, born out of the
computing and information age.
The 4th Industrial Revolution.
The age of AI.
Reimagining every part of industry.
Across the continent,
industrial AI is taking hold.
From design to engineering.
You're blazing new trails toward
understanding and reinvention.
You brought the physical world into the virtual.
To plan and optimize
The world's modern factories.
You're building the next frontier.
Where everything that moves is robotic.
Every car an intelligent autonomous agent.
And a new collaborative workforce to
help close the global labor shortage gap.
Developers across the continent
are building every type of robot.
Teaching them new skills.
In digital twin worlds and robot gyms.
Preparing them to work alongside us.
In our factories.
Warehouses
The operating room.
And at home.
The 4th industrial revolution is here.
Right where the first began.
What do you think?
I love that video.
You made it. That's so great. You made it.
Well, we're working on industrial AI with one
company after another. This is a BMW. Building
their next generation factory in Omniverse.
This is…I don't know how to say it. Can somebody
teach me? Sounds good. Exactly. That's exactly
right. Good job. Good job. That's exactly right.
They're building, of course, their plants,
digital twins and Omniverse is key. Their
digital twin for warehouse logistics.
This is Mercedes Benz and their digital twins
of their factories built in Omniverse. This is
Schaeffer and their digital twin of
their warehouse built in Omniverse.
This is your train station here in France
building a digital twin of their train stations in
Omniverse. And this is Toyota building a digital
twin of their warehouse in Omniverse. And when,
when you build these warehouses and these
factories and Omniverse, then you could design it,
you can plan it, you can change it.
In green-field it’s wonderful,
in brown-field it's wonderful. You could simulate
its effectiveness before you go and physically
lift and move things around to discover it wasn't
optimal. And so the ability to do everything
digitally in a digital twin is incredible.
But the question is why does the digital twin have
to be photoreal and why does it have to obey the
laws of physics? The reason for that is because
we wanted ultimately to be a digital twin where a
robot could learn how to operate as a robot. And
robots rely on photons for their perception system
and those photons are generated through Omniverse.
And a robot needs to interact with the physical
world so that it could know whether it's doing
the right things and learn how to do it
properly. And so these digital twins have
to look real and behave realistically. Okay,
so that's the reason why Omniverse was built.
This is fantastic. This is a fusion reactor
digital twin. Incredibly complicated piece of
instrument as you know, and without AI the next
generation fusion reactor would not be possible.
We're announcing today that we are going to
build the world's first industrial AI cloud
here in Europe.
Yep.
These industrial AI clouds are, yes, a whole
lot of computers in the cloud. However,
the requirements, its performance, its safety
requirements fundamentally different. And so I'm
going to tell you a lot more about it on Friday.
I'm only teasing you part of the story today,
but this industrial cloud will be
used for design and simulation.
Virtual wind tunnels that you just walk
into. Virtual wind tunnels you just move
a car into and you see it behave. Open
doors, open windows, change the design.
All completely in real time. Design in real
time, simulate in a digital wind tunnel,
digital twin of a wind tunnel in real time,
build it in a factory of a digital factory
twin in real time. All of this, and the robots
learn how to be great robots and build the
robots of our future, self driving cars and such.
We already have a tremendous ecosystem here. We've
been here, as you know, for a very long time.
NVIDIA is 33 years old. The first time we came
to Europe was during the time when workstations
and the digitalization of products, CAD, the CAD
revolution started. We were here during the CAE
revolution and now the digital twin revolution.
Some $2 trillion of ecosystem here in
Europe that we partner with and that have
the privilege of supporting. What comes out
of that is a new revolution that's happening.
As you know, everything that moves will be
robotics, everything that moves will be AI-driven,
and the car is the most obvious next one.
NVIDIA builds the AI supercomputers
to train the model.
The AI supercomputer
for Omniverse digital twins. We also build
the AI supercomputers for the robot itself.
In every single case, whether it's in the cloud
for Omniverse or in the car, we offer the entire
stack, the computer itself, the operating
system that runs on top of this computer,
which is different in every single case.
This computer, high-speed, sensor-rich,
must be functionally safe. In no
circumstance could it fail completely.
And so the safety requirements are incredibly
high. And now we have an incredible model that
sits on top of it. This model that sits on top
of it is a transformer model. It's a reasoning
model. It takes sensor in, you tell it what
you want it to do, and it will drive you there.
Takes pixels in and it generates path
plans output. So it's a generative AI
model based on transformers.
Incredible technology
NVIDIA’s AI team, AV team, is incredible.
This is the only team that I know that has
won end-to-end self-driving car
challenge at CVPR two years in a
row. And so they're the winner again this year.
Let's take a look at the video. Yep, thank you.
[video]
Let's take a look at what they do.
Like any driver, autonomous vehicles
operate in a world full of unpredictable
and potentially safety critical scenarios.
NVIDIA Drive built on the Halos safety system.
Lets developers build safe autonomous
vehicles with diverse software stacks
and sensors and redundant computers.
It starts with training. Safe AVs need massive
amounts of diverse data to be able to address
edge cases, but real world data is limited.
Developers use NVIDIA Omniverse and
Cosmos to reconstruct the real world
and generate realistic synthetic training
data to bring diversity to the AV model.
The model can perceive and
reason about its environment.
Predict future outcomes.
And generate a motion plan.
And for decision making diversity, an independent
classical stack runs in parallel.
Guardrails monitors safe performance.
And in cases of anomalies, calls the
arbitrator to make an emergency stop.
Further diversity and redundancy are built
into the sensor and compute architecture.
Each sensor connects to redundant computers,
so even if a sensor or computer fails,
the vehicle stays safe and operational.
And in the event of a critical failure,
the system can execute a minimum risk
maneuver like pulling over to the shoulder.
Safety is foundational to autonomous driving.
NVIDIA Drive lets developers worldwide
integrate Halos into their own products
to build the next generation of safe AVs.
A billion cars on the road, 10,000 miles
a year on average, ten trillion miles.
The future of autonomous
driving is obviously gigantic.
And it's going to be driven,
it's going to be powered by AI.
This is, this is the next gigantic opportunity.
And we're working with enormous companies and
really fantastic companies around
the world to make this possible.
At the core of everything we do here
with AV is safety and we're really,
really proud of our Halos system.
It starts with the architecture of the
chip and then the chip design and the systems
design, the operating systems, the AI models,
the methodology of developing the software, the
way we test it, everything from the way we train
the models, the data we provide for the models,
all the way to the way we evaluate the models.
NVIDIA’s Halos system and our AV safety team
and capabilities are absolutely world-renowned.
This computer was the first one to be
software-defined, the world's first software
defined completely 100% software-defined, AI
driven stack for AVs. We've been at this now for
coming up on ten years. And so this capability
is world-renowned and I'm really proud of it.
The same thing that's happening for
cars is happening for a new industry.
As I mentioned earlier, if you
can generate video from prompts.
AI can perceive, it can reason.
It can generate videos and words
and images. And just now with cars,
the path, the steering wheel path.
Why can't it also generate locomotion
abilities and articulation abilities?
So that fundamental ability for AI to
revolutionize one of the hardest robotics
problems is around the corner. Humanoid
robots are going to be a thing. We now
know how to build these things, train
these things, and operate these things.
Human robotics is going to potentially
be one of the largest industries ever.
And it requires companies who
know how to manufacture things.
Manufacture things of extraordinary capabilities.
This speaks of the European countries. So much
of the world's industries are based here. I
think this is going to be a giant opportunity.
Well, let's say it's a billion
robots around the world.
The idea that there'd be a billion robots is a
very sensible thing. Now why hasn't it happened?
Well, the reason for that is simple.
Today's robots are too hard to program.
Only the largest companies can afford
to install a robot, get it, to teach it,
program it to do exactly the right things.
Keep it sufficiently surrounded so that it's safe.
That's the reason why the world's largest car
companies have robots. They're large enough.
The work is sufficiently repetitive.
The industry is at a sufficient scale
that you could deploy robots into those
factories. Almost everybody who is a middle,
or small and medium companies, or mom and
pop restaurants or stores or warehouses, it's
impossible to have that programming capability.
Until now. We're going to give you essentially
robots where you could teach them. They'll
learn from you. Just as we were talking about
Agentic AI, we now have humanoid AI that can learn
from your teaching using toolkits that are very
consistent with the NeMo tools I spoke about.
NVIDIA here as well is built in a three-layer
stack. We build the computer, the Thor
computer dev kit. looks a little bit like this.
This is a robotic computer, completely
self-contained dev kit sits on your desk.
These are all the sensors and inside
is a little supercomputer Thor chip.
Really, really incredible. And these. Yep.
Yeah. I could imagine getting one of these
inserted like that. Okay, thank you.
So that's the Thor processor. On top
is an operating system designed for robotics.
And on top of that, transformer models that
take sensor data and instructions and transforms
them and generates paths and motor controls for
arm articulation, finger articulation,
and of course your legs articulation.
Now the big challenge of human robotics is the
amount of data necessary to train. It is very,
very hard to get. And so the question is, how do
you do that? Well, the way you solve that problem
is to back in Omniverse, a digital twin world
that obeys the laws of physics. And this is an
incredible piece of work that we're doing.
Don't do it. Don't
Oh. My fault
Okay, these are robots.
We developed computers to train them, computers
to simulate them and the computer that goes
inside them. There's a whole bunch of human
robotics companies being built around the world.
They all see the great opportunity to
revolutionize this new device if you will. And
the progress is going incredibly fast. And the
way that they all learn is they learn in a virtual
world. and this virtual world has to obey the
laws of physics. And recently we announced a big
partnership with Disney Research and DeepMind,
and we're going to work together to create the
world's most sophisticated physics simulation.
And I'm just trying to figure out at this point
how to go to that slide. Teach me who's with me.
This is what happens when you only rehearse once.
Okay, so this this. Incredible system This
incredible system is where an AI learns how to
be an AI. Let me show it to you.
[video]
We have a special guest.
Your name is Grek.
Are you a petite garson or petite belle?
Okay. Grek is a little girl.
Now look at this. Grek learned
how to walk inside Omniverse.
Obeying the laws of physics.
But inside Omniverse, we created
hundreds of thousands of scenarios.
Then finally, when Grek learned how
to operate and walk and manipulate in those
environments on sand and on, you know, on gravel,
slippery floors, on concrete, on carpet.
Then when it comes, when Greg comes into
the physical world, the physical world
is just the 100,001 version of the world.
And so you learn how to walk the
virtual world and look at you now.
Can you, can you jump? Wow.
Can you dance?
Well, I think, I think, um. I just want to
let you know I am the keynote presenter.
So I need you, I need you to behave. I
need you to behave for a few seconds.
I need you to behave for a few
seconds. Could you sit? Sit.
Hey, you know what we should do?
Let's take a picture of everybody.
Yeah. Bam. bam.
Would you like to come home with me?
Would you like to come home with me? I got.
Yeah, I know. Yeah, I have pets. They
would like to have you as a pet.
No? No. You're so smart. You're
so smart. Well. Incredible right?
Grek you are the world's best robot
and someday we'll all have one like
you and they'll follow us around.
But if I need a glass of whiskey, you're going
to have to go tell somebody else to go get me a
glass of whiskey because you have no arms.
Yeah. You're so cute. Okay little girl,
you stay here for a second. Let's wrap up.
Alright. It's very clear. It's very clear an
industrial revolution has started. The
next, the next wave of AI has started.
Grek is a perfect example of what's possible
now with robotics. The technology necessary to
teach a robot. To manipulate to simulate.
And of course the manifestation of an
incredible robot is now right in front of us.
We have physical robots and we have information
robots. We call them agents. So the next wave of
AI has started. It's going to require inference
workloads to explode, it's basically going to
go exponential. The number of people that are
using inference has gone from 8 million to 800
million, a hundred times in just a couple of
years. The number, the amount of prompts that,
the tokens generated, as I mentioned earlier,
from a few hundred tokens to thousands of tokens.
And of course we use AI even more than ever today.
So we need a special computer designed
for thinking, designed for reasoning. And
that's what Blackwell is, a thinking machine.
These Blackwells will go into new types of
datacenters, essentially AI factories designed
for one thing and one thing only. And these AI
factories are going to generate tokens, and these
tokens are going to become your food, little Grek.
I know, I know.
And what's really incredible,
I'm so happy to see that Europe is going all
in on AI. The amount of AI infrastructure
being built here will increase by an order
of magnitude in the next couple of years.
I want to thank all of you for your
partnership. Have a great VivaTech. Thank you.
Say bye bye. Say bye bye. Take a bunch of
pictures. Take a bunch of pictures. Take a
bunch of pictures.
Yeah.